there's a lot of rumors surrounding jim
and today he addresses some of them for
good my dad he was out of my life from
fairly young he was arrested he was in
prison for a while he was definitely
sociopathic i wonder what man i would be
if he had stuck around
oh i've lost count the amount of times
i've been called a cheetah me and tony
broke up just over two years ago me and
sarah got together as far as the world
is concerned a few months later but
obviously that wasn't it because the
world only found out me and tony broke
up when we decided to tell them
because i lost my [__] the other day on
on social media so i can take hate i've
got a thick skin it doesn't it bounces
straight off i don't care this is my job
it's not a personal reflection on me but
when it comes to somebody
calling my pregnant fiance the names
they called her and saying that my baby
should be miscarried that's where i draw
the line
some people come on this podcast and
they're
cagey
sometimes they even try and bend the
truth
protect their ego
dare i say it sometimes they even lie
not my next guest
completely utterly brutally honest
raw unfiltered and vulnerable he's a
british celebrity with six or seven or
eight million followers
but you don't know jim you don't know
jim chapman almost nobody does
today we're talking about success the
chronic curse of overthinking we're
talking about love breakups rumors both
of the similarities in our mindsets
we're talking about how you need to be a
contradiction in various parts of your
life if you're going to be happy
something i didn't realize until today
until this conversation and we're
talking about child abuse child abuse to
an extent that most of us could and
should hopefully never be able to
imagine we're talking about paralyzing
anxiety social media it's upsides and
downsides
and
what all of this life stuff is
fundamentally about unavoidably there's
a lot of rumors surrounding jim
and today
he addresses some of them for good
without further ado i'm stephen bartlett
and this is the director ceo i hope
nobody's listening but if you are then
please keep this yourself
jim
i always think the most important place
to start when i have these conversations
is getting to know
the
experiences
that made you who you are today because
for me that creates the context for
everything we're about to discuss and a
lot of the time people don't really know
those things um so tell me about some of
the experiences when you're younger when
you're in school um that you think have
contributed to the man you are today
okay um i guess and god is instantly
gonna sound like a sob story and it
absolutely is not this is a positive
thing i guess the first thing that
brings to me is my dad so uh my dad was
he did bad things like he he abused my
mum um
from even before i was born i got two
older sisters who
um
you know dealt with it as well i don't
think he ever turned a hand to them
but he
verbally was very i mean even i remember
that and i was super young i remember
him being very very hurtful and very
unkind and just bullying to my sisters
i think he always wanted boys so my
brother and i were kind of like i've got
a twin so we were like the prodigal
children i suppose
um
i didn't know this because obviously i
was born into it but it's not it wasn't
until i got a little older and i'd have
like sleepovers at friends houses or i
would just be in the presence of other
people on their parents and i'd be like
wait your house isn't terrifying that's
that's uh this is great you know and i
think
i got
as i got slightly older i realized that
things weren't quite right and it was
one day uh my brother and i were in the
room next door where we slept my parents
and we walked in and my dad was like on
top of her just beating the [__] out but
basically and
my brother and i we're only tiny we must
have been like five or six tried to pull
him off but obviously he was huge so
just pinging us away and it was a
wild night you know the police came took
him away
um
etc etc just kind of
he
i didn't know at the time but he had
been
beating my mom and abusing her for
years but of course she was trapped now
my mom is
a saint but also
she doesn't tolerate fools she's not
i think the thing about domestic abuse
is a lot of people go oh just get out of
there just get out of there it's not
it's not as simple as that she had her
kids to think of i remember being in the
car with my dad and he would threaten to
just crash the car and kill us all he
drove like a maniac he was drunk quite a
lot my mom couldn't just leave with four
children because he found us we tried to
leave he found us you know so i think um
that he's very much a cautionary tale
for me
um he was out of my life from
fairly young but never
fully out because he
you know was taken away by the police he
was arrested he was in prison for a
while but despite the fact that we had
like a court order that he couldn't come
near he still came near all the time at
one point he
kidnapped us a very strong word at one
point he took me um it just kind of came
to the window and i was his son you know
he was my dad so i worshipped him and i
still didn't fully understand so i
remember going to the window and saying
mom's calling the police you have to go
and he just went okay and just took me
with him and drove
we're in a bloody police chase drove
like
super fast and the police had to kind of
you know stop and pull him over um
it was you know it was a very
unsettling time for a child but
because of that he was removed and i
spent most of my childhood being brought
up by my mum and my big sisters so
i
wanted for nothing um i was very well
loved very well protected super well
looked after and i think actually i
often wonder and i was having this chat
with sarah the other day because
obviously we've got a child on the way
and i was thinking i wonder what man i
would be if he had stuck around or or if
we couldn't get away from him or
whatever it would have been um
and
you know
whether he wanted to or not he taught me
a lot of lessons
but i think mostly
cautionary lessons because my family are
bloody great you know there's uh i've
got two big sisters i've got a mum i've
got a twin brother and i would choose no
one else on the planet to take those
roles if i had the choice they would be
the people i choose 100
um
and he missed out on that because he was
unwell i would say um he had ms and i
always remember him
you being a victim of it in a way that
my sister inherited from it from him and
she's so
positive with it like she's not a victim
she doesn't let it beat her she has
times when she's tired it gets on top of
her she has a little sob she goes to bed
she recognizes the signs though and she
goes right okay it's getting on top of
me i need to rest for a while
i remember my dad just being like a
victim of it and being like ruined my
life he did this he used to play
football
from what i understand a fairly high-ish
level like kind of
he played for west ham not in the
a team but something and he was like oh
the ms ruined it for me which i'm sure
it did you know there's no question with
that but
life deals you cards and you
react you behave in a way that you that
you see fit
um and
he
let
the card's life doubt him
ruin everything i think and i think
because of that he was angry
um i also i mean i don't say this
lightly but i think he was definitely
sociopathic he manipulated everybody
and a lot a lot my mom didn't even know
about until we were clear from him and
then people start asking her for money
because you know he owed it to them i
mean he he went to prison for like armed
robbery or something like he was just
you know really bad things um so i think
for me that's kind of the first thing my
mind goes to when someone asked me about
kind of um
childhood
um
formulation of me but i don't
necessarily think of it as a negative
thing because actually i think that
because he was removed from my life by
my protectors my mum my big sisters i
had a wonderful childhood you know we
didn't have any when he was around there
was more money because i think he stole
a lot of money and because he he took it
you know there was two parents earning
but also he he earned it by nefarious
means suddenly we had no money um
and my nan had to like buy the house
that we lived in and we stayed at my
mum's best friends for like a year or so
because she took us in because we
couldn't afford anywhere else but
i was safe and i was happy and i was
like
my mum had more capacity to
be a better mum because she wasn't
constantly
running for the hills you know so
actually i think that it's a really
positive
thing um that happened because imagine
if he was still
around imagine if he was still my father
figure now at 33 i'd be
a mess for one thing i think but i'd
also be
i wonder if i'd be a not a nice man and
actually i pride myself on being
decent and kind
um and he missed out on that
i read a little bit about the story
as i was doing some research on your
book and things like that and one of the
most startling
parts of all of this is how much empathy
dare i say you
appear to have for this man which i
think people would find surprising i
think you said i don't blame him for how
things happened yeah i don't i i
actually
i i think of myself as quite an
empathetic person um
i rarely have arguments with people um i
do with sarah obviously because we live
under the same roof um and like we have
disagreements but your fiancee yes my
fiance yeah um although not at the
moment because she's pregnant so you can
do no wrong um but i do have uh i tend
not to have
like extra personal drama because i i do
consider how it would be from someone
else's perspective and i appreciate that
yes okay i could have my say because i
feel slighted about a thing and i could
say well you did this and it made me
feel that but that's my feelings on an
action that they
um and they will have
equal and opposite
feelings on the way i behaved because of
their actions nobody i don't i believe
nobody will go out of their way just to
be a prick you know they've always got
their
thoughts and feelings and their
motivations and i don't think anyone's
doing it like oh that'll pissed him off
i'll show you you know what i mean
they're living their life we all live in
our bubble
my uh my therapist calls it the lifeboat
we all live in our lifeboat right um
but
we're all in the same ocean
so
depending on how
good your lifeboat is you
will weather the storm or not right
there's a storm on the ocean we're all
in it especially at the moment it's
pandemic right we're all in the pandemic
together but it depends on the boat
you're sailing on um and there are times
when boats kind of bump into each other
or someone's in a dinghy and you need to
sort of tie them to yours for a while
and help them get through things
whatever
but i really don't feel like anybody is
purposely
um
an ass it might be manipulative they
might see
a way that they can behave that will
um better them
in a situation where okay i'll come off
better with that and it might it might
do him no favors but you know they're
not doing it
for that reason they're doing it for
that reason they're doing it because
they want to um
have a better situation for them not
just to piss me off so i tend not to
have arguments i will say to someone
that's not cool can you see that from my
perspective um
and you and and do you think so when you
think about your the situation with your
dad it seems like from that you you
avoid attributing blame to him
and then so i i'm questioning myself i'm
saying is that because you
understand the reasons why he was the
way he is or
um you have empathy for i have yeah i
just i think i just have empathy for
people i don't i think there's
definitely blame i think we all we all
have to own our own actions um
but i think there are also
there are
reasons behind actions i don't think
it's ever as simple as
he hit my mum just because he's
aggressive i think you have to dig
deeper like my my granddad was
so his dad
not okay i remember being i remember
going to his house and he'd be like
watching
not porn but like softcore in front of
us you know as just he was just i don't
know i don't know if he was just a bit
like
um
senile at that point or or what but you
know it's not all right to do that with
young kids around
um and you see these generational cycles
right 100 yeah and i'm very proud and
very happy
to have broken that cycle because you
know my i don't i don't know what his
dad was like but my granddad taught my
dad his behavior not all of it because i
actually i actually do think there was
um i actually do believe my dad had
sociopathic tendencies which isn't
necessarily a taut thing it's more like
a brain function thing you know um but i
think there was definitely
something there and it didn't help
having his dad
uh teach instill in him certain beliefs
and
patterns or whatever
quick one starting from the minute the
lockdown is lifted we're going to start
bringing in some of our subscribers to
watch how this podcast is produced
behind the scenes means you get to meet
the guests meet myself and see how we
put all of this together if you want
that to be you all you've got to do hit
the subscribe button
my mum is a very allowed person and
that's a huge understatement like loves
to scream in people's faces very short
temper my dad is a certain way and as
i've got older and older i've got more
conscious
that at times i feel like myself
becoming a little bit like them in
certain moments
and it scares me sometimes i think
and i think well genetically of course
i'm half of each of them so um have you
ever has it ever concerned you in the
same way that you might have picked up
some of the unpleasant traits of either
of your parents
um is that across your mind i'm turning
into my mom
my mom my mom has unpleasant traits only
in as far as she
for example when i moved house wouldn't
stop going on about parking
like that sort of thing oh you better
get a pokemon i live in london you don't
get off street parking i've got a
parking permit apart around the corner
that's my life but she's like oh you
need to get a driveway i'm like no i
don't like that's the sort of thing she
won't let it drop she's got a fact in
her mind about um trump for example and
she goes oh trump's bad he did this
thing yeah but what about all the other
things yeah you know so she's um
that's her kind of annoying trait and if
that's the worst i get then i'm fine
with that um as far as my dad i don't
think
i mean yeah like i say he's half me or
i'm half him i suppose
um
but i think that the thing is about my
degree is in psychology right so i know
a little bit about it and i'm always
quite conscious like i know for example
there are
certain genes
that will only get triggered under
certain environments so yes all right i
might well have his gene for something
but if i don't if i'm not in an
environment where it's
had to uh where it
would have expressed itself then i might
never and i also think that there is an
element of um
i guess
consciousness that can override that
self-awareness yeah self-awareness and
education therapy psychology totally
yeah yeah i'm very um
i work on and i said i hate this i hate
saying this as it sounds like really
wanky but i work on bettering myself you
know i
i i know my flaws i work too much like i
forget to bring my head up and i neglect
sarah sometimes because i'm too busy
typing away or i'm too busy
in my own little world stressing about
whatever i'm stressing about which
doesn't need to happen but it does and i
i'm aware of that and that's the sort of
thing i work on but i've never been
aggressive never been violent um
i
really do boxing quite a lot um but it's
not about the violence of it it's about
the chess of it like i really like the
it's an intellectual
sport you know you have to be smart you
have to think about where you're
positioning all the time um and i've
never this is not i don't know if it's
not in my nature but it's something that
i won't
entertain
there are times where i get driven
bonkers by
sarah or by people and i just think oh
my god i could just like nut you right
now
obviously i'm never going to yeah
because it's just
every fiber in my being is would not
allow me because i've seen the impact
i've seen
i'm six foot three i could do some real
damage um but i just never would so i i
do get loud sometimes if i'm you know if
we're having an argument i would
kind of just
talk louder and
i think with me it's there in particular
it's tricky because we're both quite
smart
and so when it comes to an argument
we're just trying to outsmart each other
the whole time which makes it really
frustrating because we're both going no
you're wrong because of this yeah and
both of you are right yeah and actually
yeah with truth in both um for sure um
but it's really hard to see that when
you've got your blood up you know what i
mean but i totally think that there's no
there's
i've got i like to think i've got the
best bits of my mum
um and if there is any kindness in my
dad and i remember moments i don't i
don't have loads of memories of him and
90 of them are negative and scary but
there are moments i remember him sitting
down with me and reading there was a
magazine i forget what it was called but
you used to get like um
a little bit of a figure every time and
you'd make the figure and it was like
something to do with bugs and we made a
big spider 12 quid per magazine
basically yeah really really overpriced
i remember him
um he would read it with me from cover
to cover and we'd put the bug together
now there would end up being six issues
um that we didn't get done and we'd have
to in one go because he wasn't around
because he was gone doing whatever he
was doing and
um he would let me down a lot but
i remember doing them and i remember
loving that time with him um
what kind of dad do you want to become
because you've got a kid on the way now
yes again yeah thanks
um
it's really hard to say this because i
know that every
first time prospective parent goes oh
i'm going to be the best dad and
actually you know invariably will all
[__] up at some point right it's gonna
happen um i just
i think for me
if i can have a child and if i can
instill in them
the waste of time in anxiety like that
just the the just the sheer
nonsense of it like
i i really want them to understand that
worrying does nothing you know yes all
right we can be stressed about things
there are times when life is hard and
things
there's challenges to overcome but you
overcome those challenges when they
present themselves there's no my
therapist one said to me when you worry
you rob yourself twice right because the
first time around you're
overwhelmingly thinking about nothing
but a potential problem which may never
ear his head if it doesn't ruin his head
then you've wasted time worrying about
it if it does ruin his head then you're
forced into action because you can't
stay in that situation so why stress
about something that's never gonna
happen or you know something that you
will solve if it does happen so i really
want my child to
understand just be content i think um
and to know that both me and sarah and
all of our families so my my siblings my
mum sarah siblings and her parents will
always be there to help you know i think
that if i can do that then i'll have
done a good job um
i want to be patient it's in my nature
i'm a very patient person
but i also know that i'll be tested so
when i do snap i snap quite quite loudly
so i want to be calm i want to be
patient i want to be
soft and considerate
and again empathetic because
the thing about kids is i i really
appreciate is they get frustrated
because they're obviously told what to
do by their parents they can't
necessarily verbalize or actually don't
have the communication ability to say
no that's not what i want you know they
have to appreciate that obviously what i
want overalls it for the most part
because safety or whatever sure but i
think they i also need to appreciate
that they'll be frustrated because they
can't
communicate
effectively why they feel pissed off
because i said no um and that will often
come out in like tantrums or whatever so
and they won't understand daddy's world
and why right when they're trying to get
your attention they don't know you're on
a zoom core pitching something for
example just like daddy won't play with
me you know so
totally it's interesting i also want to
make sure i'm around enough my job
totally allows that like i
have time i can work as little or as
much as i want that's that's the beauty
of my job obviously i'll work less i
earn less but you know i can make those
sacrifices i don't at the moment that's
my problem i work constantly because i
like what i do and because of the
constant it's anxiety i'm constantly
worried about if i take my foot off the
gas what happens next
i find that fascinating but i picked up
on that before we started recording
right because every time we talked about
your screenplays
or other things you're working on
you would then end the sentence with
but i might lose it all right and i
i
don't resonate like that i found that
interesting because it's not how i end
my sentences right but it was it was
like you would tell me something and
then
you would also then almost caveat it at
the end with there is a chance i might
not i might not get it or i might lose
it yeah and i i i find it particularly
because i don't think in that way right
so where does that come from in you this
my mum right uh 100 again she's
wonderful she has
like a like an ethos it's not a saying
it's an ethos which is like a day doing
nothing's a day wasted um
she can't relax i can't relax as a
consequence um
if i'm sitting there just chilling even
if i'm watching a film which for me i
consider as research because i write
films right if i'm watching something
i'm like oh okay i see what they're
doing there and it's like i don't watch
them passively i'm constantly thinking
about them
um
but even if i'm sitting there watching a
film i'm like oh i shouldn't be doing it
it's nine p.m right it's the evening and
i'm supposed to be relaxing and i'm
sitting there and i shouldn't be doing
this i shouldn't be doing this that's my
biggest
what's your brain saying in that moment
it's telling me off it's it's going dude
you need to be you can't just be sitting
here watching you need to be doing you
need working and making what if this all
goes wrong how are you going to earn the
money how are you going to afford to
look after your child and pay the
mortgage and
you know all that stuff
a lot of people will resonate with that
for sure um and you've addressed it in
therapy yeah what have you learned i
learned that i do it yeah
which a lot of people don't even know
right that self-awareness of
knowing that it's
a problem you have
and it's taken me i've been seeing my
therapist for christ six seven years
something like that how often uh it's
various if i'm going through a moment
then more often at the moment like once
every six weeks because i'm pretty chill
um
but
it's taken her most of our time together
just to crack that and she sort of said
you know
with me it's my biggest
um strength and also my biggest flaw it
just depends on where it is on the dial
like if i've got that at seven it's
great because i'm motivated and i'm
enjoying my work and i'm
loving it and i'm sitting there god i'm
really good at this you know and i'm
typing away or doing whatever i'm doing
if it's an eight or a nine it's torture
paralyzed or
yeah often paralyzed often paralyzed
ironically into doing nothing because
i'm so busy stressing
about getting it done i don't get it
done because i've got no brain space
because it's too busy whizzing around in
my head going get it done get it done
get it done um so there's a point where
it's sort of really um
ironically kind of just
it's the antithesis of what it's
designed for yeah and i think i i think
i get a lot of that from my dad because
i remember being young
knowing that it was easier to be busy
and keep myself
separate so i used to draw i'd be like
this be really arty um
yeah out of harm's way and i so you
would just draw in the corner because
you felt safe if he if you were busy and
he wasn't if i wasn't in his in his
eyeline i couldn't be
chastised or it was safer i think my dad
he was very unpredictable so
which is terrifying for a kid right
because you don't know if you're going
to get love or you're going to get
punishment for the same action
um so i always spend most of my time
just kind of getting on with stuff and
because of that i've developed a real
independence um a real creativity
but
if it's turned up too high it's
crippling whereas if it's a good number
um then it's what's got me to where i am
i 100
would not be here without that because i
just wouldn't work as hard as i do um
but i don't need to work as hard as i do
you know human beings have a couple of
things they need to do they need to
sleep they need to eat they have the
option of procreating
that's kind of it right what else is
there the rest of it is just made up
right
the rest of it is just made up [__] that
we've given ourselves to do society has
told us that in order to be a complete
person we need to and it's climb right
totally and it's bloody stressful it's
it's it's debilitating sometimes so when
i have that turned up too high i end up
doing nothing but i worry myself and
sarah's like where have you gone like i
just disappear and i don't talk i don't
like
i haven't been like this for a while
because i'm pretty good at recognizing
the signs and i know to take my foot off
the gas a bit because of you know all
the therapy i've had but yeah it's it's
the bloody worst what has helped you
um therapy yeah
absolutely that being aware of it
there's a point i always say this
because i've actually
a couple of my best mates
have i don't know a guy that's my age
that doesn't need it by the way um so a
couple of my best mates i've put them in
touch with therapists or sort of said
something you know i think you should
see someone and actually we're really
open and honest with each other we're
constantly looking out if one of us is
quiet on the group chat we'll go dude
you all right you've been a bit quiet um
i said to him at the time i was like
there's a really tough point with
therapy where you start seeing someone
at first you're really resistant and
you're like no i'm fine what are you
talking about but when they point things
out to you like [__] i'm not fine but
you're aware of doing it but you have no
tools in place
of
how to stop doing it
or how to at least challenge it so
you're just punishing yourself doing it
like i remember going through that stage
for a long time going i hate that i'm
failing i hate that i'm still stressing
out about
being
like working constantly or not working
constantly or whatever it is i hate that
i'm doing it to myself but i can't stop
and you feel a bit like a junkie you
know in a way that you're like
you know it's wrong you know you
shouldn't be doing it but you can't you
can't not um
and actually it takes a while to learn
the techniques you know mine is as
simple as it's it's painful that i have
to go right stop just don't do it take a
step away from your laptop step away
from your camera do whatever it is
you're doing have five minutes if you
feel better after five minutes go back
to it if not then take the rest of the
day off um and that's
what i have to do i need to be
sarah needs to keep me in check quite a
lot because if i
sometimes it thinks up on me and i'm
kind of like at stage four before i even
realized it i'm like [__] i'm in too
deep um so she's often like dude come
back um
and that's really helpful it's hard
though because you don't want to be told
by someone that you're not performing
the way you should you know what i mean
actually something that matters right
right it's totally especially when it's
your already your weakness
um
but you need to be
like i actually really like criticism so
it's good for me like if you know if i
send someone some work or something and
they go oh okay as long as it's
constructive you know they go okay i see
what you're doing here don't like that
that that's not great i thrive on that
because i'm back in there and i'm you
know so
i think having
other third parties be like
you're not doing right right now um and
that's something
that i really
want to
be totally aware of when it comes to my
child because i don't want to be an
absent father i don't want to be a dad
that's always going no no no i'm just
not my laptop come back to me five
minutes i want to be able to
obviously i have to work you know we
will have a living but
i want to be able to
have my kid with me and be present you
know and not them think that they're
sort of
auxiliary or like an afterthought or
just an addition i want them to know
that they are the center of my universe
you know
i say this every week but i'm going to
say it again um it is a tremendous
pleasure to have a podcast sponsor that
a you've used for maybe three years
people ask me as well they say how many
heals do you drink a day the answer is
probably about two sometimes two and a
half um but a podcast sponsor that you
genuinely believe can help people change
their life for the better um watching
the team at huel
argue with each other and be so
uncompromising about the ingredients
that go into this bottle or the bags or
the bars all the hot and savory
has only strengthened my
evangelism for this brand watching the
founder julian and the ceo james
insist
that only the best ingredients go in
here and be so scientifically precise
about what goes in this bottle and in
the bars and in the bags
has only made me love this more because
i know they've got my back and i wish
all of you could be in those boardrooms
that i've been in and watch them fight
for your and my health um via this
product
so professionally
we talked a little bit about your work
there one of the things that uh that
you've said is you don't like being
called like an influencer like a
youtuber
uh i think it's really reductive yeah um
and i think that actually if you look
you know if you just weigh up the
quantity of work i do it's only about
less than 50 i'd say um
unfortunately i don't get paid for the
other stuff yeah
so yeah
but i do lots of other stuff i
appreciate that i communicate that other
stuff online via my social media i just
think that influencer is
for one thing's an ugly word because it
implies that you are
um
utilizing influence over someone whereas
actually i just share the stuff i like
even if it's an ad even if it's um i'm
working with a brand i'm not going to
work with a brand that i don't want to
talk about right so
it's i'm talking about things that i'm
actually enjoying or passionate about or
whatever it may be and i don't see that
as exerting influence i see that as
sharing
joy or even if it's just sharing good
tips or whatever it may be i see that as
a very different thing and i i also have
a thing and i've mentioned this a few
times as
there was a void in um social media
where myself and my contemporaries all
started around the same time did it for
fun did it for love did it for adventure
we had no idea it was going to go
anywhere and when it started to we were
like oh my god and genuinely i looked
back at it and i was such
nostalgia i don't miss it but i love
that i was part of it you know because
it was such a cool journey to moment in
history as well yeah totally absolutely
was you know and we sold out these
venues and we were you know we had
screaming fans it felt like being in a
small version of one direction you know
um it was wild and just so much fun do
you miss that no
i loved it at the time when i was in my
early twenties every young person
and i saw some of those clips of your
meetups in like parks and stuff right
and i've never seen a line that long in
my lifetime yeah it's wild but like like
a thousand meters i don't even know how
many meters that is of people right four
like four deep in like this massive line
just screaming and crying at times it's
really hard to put it into words i tried
explaining it to sarah when we first met
because obviously videos
yeah it's really hard and we get if i
get stopped on the street now by someone
she's like what yeah but she's also like
oh they didn't scream or cry like yeah
you don't get it it's never used to be
yeah um but my what my point was is that
like everyone thinks especially young
people especially young men
well all young people would love to be
that guy and you're telling me you don't
miss it no i loved it at the time don't
get me wrong it was great but the
novelty soon wears off because
it got to the point where
you couldn't i couldn't take public
transport like i couldn't walk to the
shops um
you know and it sounds like i'm really
exaggerating but actually at the time it
really was that just i would even now
if i'm walking along the street and i
see a group of teenagers i'm like oh
[__] here we go it's not teenagers
anymore they're all in their 20s but i'm
so conditioned to being aware of
teenagers now that i'm like oh my god oh
my god they're going to come for me and
they're going to like scream and cry and
it's i don't how is this played with
your anxiety though
that's not that's not what sets me off
so that's fine um
i've always got time for it if people
stop and want to have a conversation as
long as i physically have time for it
i'm not rushing i'll always stop and
have a chat you know i've got i'm i'm
i'm really gracious
in that i appreciate that without those
people i wouldn't be in the position i'm
in i don't feel like i owe them anything
because at the same time i provided the
content they wanted to watch but it's
definitely like almost like a
transaction right i wouldn't be there
without them they wouldn't a lot of them
have said like when i had amounts that i
was pregnant sarah was pregnant a lot of
them sort of said oh my god i can't
believe you you like bought me up
because a lot of these teenagers watched
my content and my contemporaries content
um but shay carl as well right totally
because
because they they loved like
watching us and we were
role models for them i suppose you know
and that's a really wonderful thing to
be part of and do i say you were idyllic
in a way that it often with
with the shape the shaytards and sheik
shaykhal and his family right
i didn't have a perfect family like that
so it was it gave you felt like you were
part of that yeah i think that and also
the friendships with
the others it was very identical but it
genuinely was that was our life at the
time it was just pure fun and like there
was no stress we were young so we had no
like um no responsibility no mortgages
no no no like other things to worry
about other than just like going out
there and having a blast um and we just
got to document that and share it
no i accept nostalgic i'm really happy i
had was part of it i don't miss it
because
i'm 33 i don't want 14 year old girls
pawning over me i don't know what i mean
or just kind of like desperately trying
i remember one time being on the tube
and this young girl just burst into
tears and her dad looked at me and
thought i was like
would you blame him you know you're
crazy i was like i'm all right i'm on
the internet which didn't help because
he's like doing what um so yeah i don't
i don't miss it uh because it's actually
really invasive and like i say i don't
care about the notoriety it was really
lovely to be that person for some people
um and to have even then a lot of those
big numbers it was still fairly
underground it hadn't really reached
mainstream it was just online right so
although it was lots of people it was of
certain sort of
sector of society it wasn't
like
older men it wasn't you know it was just
teenagers basically um
and it was yeah i'd say it was a real
blast but i don't miss it i feel like
actually i grew out of it fairly rapidly
the thing about it being teenagers is
that no one can obsess like teenagers so
they
would be desperate for the photo the
selfie the um they'd scream and cry and
go ballistic and actually but i'm really
anti-climactic
i'm just i'm some dude i'm really i'll
often just go i'm really sorry that it's
me
so yeah i'm very like i say i'm very
grateful for it and i love that i've got
those memories and i love that i've made
those friends um
but yeah i don't miss it who's jim now
then that's if that's old jim and that's
your
say your first chapter what is that what
is your second chapter i feel like i've
had so many chapters actually i feel
like i've i've evolved the beauty of my
job is i'm allowed to do that i'm
allowed to evolve when it's forced it
can be really ugly and i think that's
how a lot of people lose
their following um partly it's it's
entropy you know people grow up and they
move on they do other things but
algorithms algorithms all that but i
think mostly it's just
people force it to try to get traffic
and views and actually my life has just
as it's changed i've
grown up with it and i've been i've
accepted that change okay like for
example i'm really i'm really hoping i
turn into a silver fox
i'm looking forward to aging gracefully
you know what i mean um and i think that
that's kind of my my my role on social
media i'm not pretending to
talk to young people anymore i'm not
pretending to be the cool guy and like
you know i'm i appreciate that i'm
i'm getting older my life's changed my
interests have changed my career has
changed and i share that with people as
opposed to
desperately trying to still impress
a young an audience that aren't right
for me i speak to a lot of youtubers and
we used to sign a couple and there was
this really interesting moment where
that first wave of youtuber
because of algorithm changes i think
predominantly algorithm changes what
they were doing then just stopped
working right the views went down and i
swear to god i witnessed a form of
depression and existential crisis right
from these youtubers who suddenly were
like what the [__] has happened what do
i do with my life now because their
whole identity from whether it was like
16 years old to 22 was doing this one
thing they never really understood work
right and it's funny because i've never
really talked about this before but one
of the youtubers we signed
you'll know his name maybe 18 at the
time and we remember calling him and
offering him 20 grand just to show up to
a place and he's like nah right i'm not
just shocked he's like no i just can't
be bothered like and he had developed
that sense of like complacency about his
career and how you make money and how
easy it is and then when [__] changes
i'm saying he can't make
any money anymore and and he's spiraled
down because i think life taught him
that money and life was super easy the
algorithm changes and now he's like [__]
and he has to go work at tesco
that's something that i really
can't tolerate in this industry it's
when people have that attitude like i'm
where i am um because i'm good to work
with as much as the numbers and as much
as everything else
i've stayed the test of time because i
am
honest and decent with my audience and i
respect my audience and i don't take the
piece and don't take them for granted
but also if i am offered a job i turn up
on time i say my places and thank yous
um i get a lot of repeat work because
i'm good to work with and i pride myself
on that and i have no
i have so little tolerance for ego like
all of us if we're on set shooting a
thing whether it's
whether you're the runner or the
director or you're me doing the bit to
camera or you're the guy going to get
coffee we're all just want to do our job
and enjoy what we're doing and then go
home at the end of the day and say oh
that was nice you know we don't there's
no space for any of that and i think
it's particularly bad in this industry
right more so than the other because
when it comes to
musicians or actors or whatever
they
are there's some people around them
right who are
um
looking after them and who are saying no
and who are
advising them and also they're not their
own content brad pitt doesn't play brad
pitt he plays someone else right someone
like me my job is to edit myself take my
own photo make my own caption reply to
my own comments and it's all like jim
jim jim jim it's very easy to then think
you're the center of the universe but
actually for every person who's
commenting going gym gym gym they're
also commenting on everybody else's
content because they just consume the
content i might be their favorite i
might not it doesn't matter
i'm not
um my i am not my job and i think that's
really important for a lot of
influencers to work out like they
believe
themselves to be
important
and actually i say this quite a lot if i
were to die tomorrow there'd be my
friends and family would be gutted
obviously and they'd be really really
sad and there'd be a few people in my
audience who were like who
um have a real connection with him but
for the most part people go oh that's a
shame i liked him and then move on and
find someone else i'm not that important
to them that they can't continue without
me
so funny because that it sounds really
depressive to some degree to say oh i
don't matter whatever but i actually
think it's the opposite really freeing
yeah it's the most liberating thing ever
i remember i remember having the same
sort of existential conversation with
myself and
it really happened when i learned about
the universe and space right and i got
really into the cosmos and i was like
wait a minute
i'm [__] not important at all totally
when it like there's a scene in cosmos
where it zooms out from and it just
keeps going and you're like wait stop
and it's like nope that's just the moon
and then it goes out and it's like
that's just the galaxy and then the
galaxy becomes a piece of sand and
you're like what the right but the
freeing part is that means that all this
[__] doesn't matter
and that's liberation like ego can be
and this is the the powerful thing about
psychedelics from the last person that's
out there who's the biggest psychedelic
investor in the world right is it
dissolves your ego and says to you
nothing you don't [__] matter right
and
yeah so i just thought that was
fascinating it's really it's something
that's really important to learn i think
probably one of my biggest
uh learnings from my career because i
went through it you know at the
beginning when everyone was like
obsessing over
the the youtubers i was like wow i'm
like a really big deal yeah yeah um i
think it's really important to know your
worth and to know your value and to
um appreciate your position i know that
i am worth a certain amount of money if
i work with a brand or i know that i'm
worth a certain amount of time if i'm
doing a thing
but i also know that
i don't matter in the grand scheme of
things and that this is a phase i might
i might [__] this up tomorrow do you
know what i mean it might last another
10 years it might last for another 30
years and i might never want to quit
equally i might get bored of it and go
you know what i feel like it's too
invasive now whatever it doesn't matter
it's my decision and i don't owe anybody
else but equally they don't owe me they
don't have to watch me if they don't
choose to and i think that's really
important and a lot of people especially
when they're young and they're just
developing their sense of identity as a
lot of influences are
and suddenly they're put in a position
where they are reaching lots and lots of
people um
it's very very easy to think of yourself
as the center of the galaxy and
we're not and actually what really
matters what truly matters is the people
that matter to you you know and as much
as i appreciate my audience i don't know
them you know i wouldn't know i mean
statistically there'll be a certain
number of them that die every year just
because of whatever right i've got no
idea it's happening you're not sending
cards you know what i mean like i've got
no idea what's happening so it just so
happens that i'm on the other side of
the camera and these people connect to
me
and i connect to them but it doesn't go
any further than that you know something
really almost
something your perspective is
fascinating because on one end you're
very
you're very freed right on the other end
you talk about your anxiety of
of of worry
and
i'm trying to weigh those two things up
this idea that you're like you know what
i don't have a plan i've heard you say
that i don't have a you know 10 year
plan the future is the future whatever
but then maybe when we zoom in and we
look at the micro scale which is like
right now today right it seems to be
very yeah you know
you're not wrong i think on the on the
wider scale um i
um it's very freeing to know this
on the more individual scale like when
you when you zoom right in it's the
stress of survival i suppose of like
um
being
enough to maintain
do you know what that comes down to
money i think which is unfortunate
because like money is not my main
motivator but i realize it's necessary
where did you learn that i feel like is
there anything in your past where money
or the lack thereof beca you know became
um compromised your safety
no i don't think compromise my safety
like i say we didn't have any um and i
appreciate that life is um
it's
i like i said earlier there's a point
where you have enough and that after
that point it doesn't matter anymore you
know you can go from having a little bit
of surplus so that you can enjoy
holidays etc you know buy yourself some
luxury things whatever you want after
that point it's all numbers it doesn't
really make any difference
but
when you go the other side of the scale
and you haven't got enough it's a major
stress you know because
what blows my mind about it is it's all
fake like it doesn't it's just it's
literally going hey here's a piece of
paper for loads of your stuff and you go
okay cool i put value on that piece of
paper it's bollocks but
it's unfortunately the way our world
works and that stresses me out just in
terms of
providing like i
couldn't go back i mean i could i'd have
to but
i would
really struggle if i had to go back to a
conventional job just doesn't suit me
like i was
bloody miserable my mum thought i was
going to kill myself when i was working
those jobs you know i i
was
very very sad um i i think it's a
it's a need for me to
create and i know that sounds really
ridiculous and really wank but like i
i can't
turn up to a job that is the same thing
every day it it
it for me feels like a prison um and i
actually
i i think the people that can do that
are like special because how wonderful
to know that you are um
you can switch on do your job um you can
know that you are earning your money
you're looking after your people you
know you raise your kids whatever
whatever it is whatever your life is and
also provide to the society and give
back your taxes and all that stuff and
just be you know a good egg and then go
home and switch off again i just think
that's the most wonderful sensation
something i've never experienced and
probably never will because my mind
doesn't work that way
so for me my anxiety comes from
the fear
of
going back to that or not being able to
provide and the only way i know how to
provide is in a very risky industry
where
i
have to
constantly churn out content have to
constantly create whatever i'm creating
in order to earn the money um and that's
that's a scary thought yeah um
but i also appreciate that it's it's
the anxiety comes in the job of it i
think the freedom comes in the um
sort of the more
i guess better of it you know like i
don't matter it does whatever the the
jim chapman's not really of any
relevance um but
for my life it's really important that i
put food on the table for
sarah and my child and that's funny
because you know we always live in now
right right it's only ever going to be
now yeah and uh what you're saying is in
the now there is urgency there is stress
yeah so we never we're never going to
live in the future it's never going to
be matter that's not the experience
we're ever going to have maybe if we
meditate we can spend some time there
but day to day we live in the we live in
the present moment um it's it's yeah
it's really really interesting to me and
as you say
you're in an industry where
a lot of people aren't making a lot of
money right the creative industry so
it's particularly challenging um yeah
very much so and i think people are
following their passion i think the
thing with influencing in particular is
that the passion is
so
easily monetized
but it's also so easy taken away and
it's so competitive that
it
often
i think some people are just passionate
about the business of it um
now i don't pretend to have a business
mind at all i haven't got a bloody clue
like i've got a production company that
i've just started with one of my pals
and he is in charge of the business when
it comes to my my social media stuff my
management are in charge of the business
i just make the stuff i want to make and
stuff that i think will be good um
and i fully believe in letting
people do play to their strengths my
strength is not that so i often get
called like an entrepreneur or something
i'm like you know all right i just i it
just been
it's been luck and timing and really
bloody hard work um and the hard work i
can i'm in control of the luck and the
timing i'm not um and
the
other people around me
are in charge of sort of
i guess bringing looking after like the
financial side of it and stuff you know
it's the admin stuff that
i don't you hate i hate
the fiery passion yeah i hate it you
said just a couple of moments ago
the the proponents that have made you
successful you said like you know luck
hard work etc etc
do you think you could have achieved
what you've achieved over the last 10
years without hard work no
absolutely not how would you square that
with the culture we live in today that
is almost viewing hard work as a bit of
a toxic thing i've almost got to the
point i'll never get there because i
don't care that much but i've almost got
to the point
just to say again i will never get there
right because i'm not going gonna lie to
people
where i sometimes feel bad being honest
that i wouldn't be here without hard
work i'm not telling you to burn out
right but i don't know how if i hadn't
have sacrifice in the way that i did i
would of course that's my experience
i've not lived another life right i can
only tell you what i've done yeah
i think it's really important it's like
work hard play hard right it's really
important
i i i posted this on on my instagram
stories of the days
everybody there's like you're right
there is a lot of people who are sort of
um
[Music]
uh poo pooing working hard don't work
too hard and there's also people who
like on my instagram it comes up all the
time hey i run three businesses and i do
this and i'm only 12 years old and like
yeah but that guy's trying to sell you a
course
for sure it's his business yes for sure
that's that's what i mean he's broke
there's there's
there's there's definitely something to
be said and this is where i like again
this is where i struggle
when you work work hard like i r and
work with passion like you know again
sarah's dad says um work is a dirty
four-letter word right
if you find the other thing if you find
something you love doing you'll never
work a day in your life so work
really hard and work with passion but
also
stop when you need to stop take your
time off enjoy your evenings or you know
again i've got a job which allows me to
work as much as little as i please i
wish i did like a four day week i would
very much like to do that so i have a
three day weekend or i take a day off in
the middle of the week i've got the
means to do so just i've got the brain
to do so you know um and i think that
that's
a really important distinction otherwise
you work all your bloody life and
suddenly you're 60 and you've gone oh my
god i haven't i actually enjoyed my
experiences um i haven't actually you
know i've got to do some really bloody
incredible experiences and sometimes i'm
too busy stressing about what's next in
my diary or finishing a thing meeting a
deadline or even stressing about the key
messages i've got to get across when i'm
on that adventure that i forget to enjoy
the adventure
and it's
the biggest sort of um
waste of time that my job
has within it you know like
i remember being in a on a helicopter
and this wasn't me actually this was
somebody else who i recognized in i was
taken away um
to new york i was going on a helicopter
around manhattan and it was like you
know what a cool experience and people
don't get to do that very often um and
this guy was sat next to me in the
middle and he couldn't take his picture
because he had to lean over me and i
said i'll swap seats with you the pilot
came over the um
you know the whatever it said and said
um oh don't swap seats because you'll
unbalance the helicopter the guy was so
pissed off he said no i want to swap i'm
like well no because you'll kill us now
so
it's a bit different i offered you my
seat when i didn't think we were going
to die
for doing it and he sold so much because
he couldn't get the photo he wanted and
i'm like
that for me really really kind of is the
epitome of not enjoying the moment like
just enjoy the bloody helicopter ride
around manhattan you idiot um but that's
prob by products of social media or
something because yeah you know the part
of the value of that was for him clearly
was being able to tell the world he did
it versus being in the moment for sure
for sure and that and unfortunately that
is job we have to tell well we've done
something otherwise
you know it hasn't happened right and
then there's no point taking me on that
really cool experience because i haven't
told anyone about it
you know so that there's definitely a
a dichotomy there in that you need to
prove that you've done it and you need
to
show your enjoyment um
but you need to also not let that take
you out of the moment and that's a fine
line one of the things i've been
thinking a lot about lately which links
to that completely is because i sit here
with people all the time and i and one
of the things i keep noticing is that in
order for them to actually be happy they
have to try and be a contradiction or
two completely different people in
separate areas of their life and right a
lot of the the lack of success they have
either in their work or relationships or
whatever or in their personal lives
comes from them not being able to switch
off from being from going like
being super successful entrepreneur and
then when they get home being loving
patient right you know and then in the
example we've just been talking about
there i would assume happiness would
come from being
able to do your job and take the photo
but then have experiences where you just
don't give a [__] if the world is
watching that's entirely it like how
that's not easy no it's not easy i
um
and dare i say
the thing that put you on the helicopter
might have been
the inability to switch off in some
degree because absolutely hard work yeah
you're interested
i haven't i haven't got to where i am by
switching off whenever i choose to you
know what i mean i've got here because i
work harder than i should um
that's that's a massive sacrifice
because i've missed out on moments i've
missed out on
um
you know like there are times where i
should just be more present with sarah
but i'm too busy working you know i miss
out on things but
i get to go on a helicopter but you know
more than that i get to live a really
cool existence like i love my job so
it's really difficult but my the way i
kind of
cross that tee dot that i i suppose is
that
i
will very often much rather pay for a
holiday
and have a actual holiday yeah rather
than just call in a trip yeah it's very
easy i mean i you know without sounding
like a real [__] it's very easy for me
to call tripping if i want to yeah i
just email a pr say oh i want to go to
dubai and they'll go all right when do
you want to go right but i tend not to
because
i listen if it is oftentimes a thing
will come to me and it's a place i've
never been or experienced i've never had
and i'll jump on it but
i will tend not to
request a free trip because honestly
my time is more valuable than the money
i can potentially earn so i would rather
pay my money to
go somewhere and switch off and read a
book do the crossword puzzle
hang out you know
because i value that much more than the
money i think that that's the thing i
think some people
put their value in money in my view too
high um and i i don't value
it like that i think my
what's most important what i value more
is people and time
okay quick one quick story from one of
my podcast sponsors fiverr fiverr.com is
a lot of you will know if you've
listened to this podcast before um one
of the challenges we've had with this
podcast over the last i'd say a couple
of months since we've really cranked up
the production is we usually promote the
podcast just on mondays so you've
probably seen on my channels monday
morning about 9 a.m i put the podcast
out there and one of the things we've
wanted to do is to keep that sort of
momentum and height moving throughout
the week from monday till sunday when
the next podcast comes out but we've had
a bit of a resource capacity because
jack who produces all of this and edits
all of this only has so much time and
these podcasts are coming in thick and
fast so
we turn to fiverr to help us extend our
capacity and we hired a video editor on
fiverr who's now producing all of our
video clips for this podcast so now in a
very very very cost effective way we've
been able to promote the podcast every
single day from monday till sunday
that is what five is all about extending
your team giving you capabilities you
might not have had and doing it in a
very cost effective way
one of the other really interesting
things you said as we were talking maybe
before we started filming was you were
talking about the things that you're
good at writing about with your
screenplays and one of the things you
said was love yeah i thought to myself i
wonder why he's good at writing about
love
um i don't know actually i i
i know my strengths when it comes to
writing and it's one of those things
where to begin with vulgar imposter
syndrome right constantly i still got it
10 years on but i know i'm good at that
um i know i can send a script somewhere
they might not like it it might not be
the thing for them and i get told no
quite a lot but invariably they say you
know what great script you've done a
really good job there um so i am
confident in my ability there and i know
my strengths are dialogue um because i
write how people talk but also get the
point across like i can't i'm the worst
person to watch a film with because if
i'm watching something i'm like people
don't talk like
what is going you know um but also love
i i just think i've got
i i don't know i think i'm a bit of an
old romantic and it comes down i think
it really for me comes down to how you
feel love you know if you can feel love
and you can put pen to paper you can
write love um and i i
i
pride myself on
trusting and loving like
to i'm not a jealous person i'm not um
i'm never gonna micromanage a
relationship or anything like that if i
love someone i trust them implicitly
they can do as they wish they can go out
with the boys or whatever i'm never
gonna go oh who did you meet and what
happened i'm never gonna like check
their phone sure you know i'm never
gonna do any of that because
if i love someone i'm all in um and
that for me is really important if you
get your fingers burnt then all right
then you then that's they get one chance
you know um that's that's my life you
had a very public relationship
one that was shared on youtube for many
many years you ended up marrying said
person and um and then that relationship
ended yeah um
difficult i imagine to to have that
experience in public right it's too
impossible yeah like it's uh you know we
were together for 12 years and most of
that time was wonderful you know it was
really
great like i said we conquered the world
together we were both part of that first
breed of
influences like social media people we
had a
wicked time and then we grew up together
it was as simple as growing up in
slightly different directions you know
um and at some point you know are you
gonna do the further you go on yeah like
that why did the gap get i literally
just did this for the first time last
week on this podcast i was like i'm
almost starting to see relationships
like two parallel lines yeah and and if
you imagine the parallel lines have just
a one percent angle either way sure
right they're either going to stay
parallel they're going to go away from
each other or closer together over time
totally i look back at it now and i
realized that actually
it probably was a small a small
incline or decline whichever you want to
put it but it
at some point becomes insurmountable
becomes a chasm you can't leap anymore
right so i look back at it and realize
that perhaps it was
uh it started much earlier than either
of us anticipated even either of us
realized and we just kind of kept
getting more and more distant until
eventually we were just roommates
basically um
was it hard to break it off when you get
to that point because you've got the
world watching yeah it wasn't hard as a
couple because we were both we both knew
we deserved better right we both knew
we're like this isn't working and we
took a it took a long time to have the
conversation because i think we both
tried for a while we're like oh come
back around we'll come back around but
we're not stupid we both knew we
deserved better so the com when we
actually had the conversation it was for
both of us quite freeing emotional
because of all the time we had together
but quite freeing of course you've then
got
the audience to think of who make
assumptions right and i've lost county
amount of times i've been called a
cheater um
just and poor old sarah gets called my
mistress constantly
i just i didn't even know sarah existed
like she was not a person to me until
well after we broke up you know like i
met her on an app and like i'm really
i'm really tempted at some point
sometimes to get the app right i haven't
got it anymore but i want to re-download
it and find our conversation go look we
started talking on this date
um just just to prove the point because
it's not
sarah didn't sign up for this [__] you
know she fell in love with me
um
and
it just so happens that i come with a
bit of
an audience who have opinions on things
and you know we all gossip right you
we've all got opinions on things that i
watch people go through breaks up
breakups on tv or i watch like the drama
with say megan and harry or whatever and
i have my thoughts and my feelings on it
um but of course i'm not gonna
dm them
about it you know um and i think that is
the issue that on the internet there's a
sort of anonymity an anonymity
and people can
say things thinking there's no
repercussions i lost my [__] the other
day on on social media because and i'd
never address it i very much of the like
i said earlier i i'm inconsequential on
the ground scheme of things so i can
take hate i've got a thick skin it
doesn't it bounces straight off i don't
care like this this is my job it's not a
personal reflection on me so whatever
but somebody had dm'd sarah a bunch of
pictures of my old relationship my
previous life and said you'll never
match up to her and then has sent
another one saying and your child
deserves to be miscarried and i lost my
[__] and i've never
i've never
behaved this way online but i went
straight to my instagram stories and i
told the person i said [__] you to the
person um
and also
i was very mad and perhaps i should have
let cooler heads prevail but actually
the amount of
um support i had off the back of it
people saying you know what bloody too
right stand up for you stand up for
sarah stand up for yourself stand up for
your child um
and i've we've had two years of it right
because me and tony broke up just over
two years ago me and sarah got together
i don't know like as far as the world is
concerned a few months later but
obviously that wasn't it because the
world only found out me and tony broke
up when we decided to tell them we
decided to tell them what we did because
the press found out so actually it was
much earlier than anyone realizes
because we were trying to get our heads
around it and work out
how
to do it with minimal
um
sort of like
minimal backlash minimum negative energy
negative energy right because we didn't
have any towards each other at all
um but when it comes to
when it comes to me being called a
cheater or whatever whatever it's fine
it bounces back off i i hold my head
high
everybody who i know and care about and
respect and love knows
what really happened and that's what
really matters to me i don't care but
when it comes to somebody
calling my pregnant fiance
the names they called her and saying
that my baby should be miscarried that's
where i draw the line
the person that sent that message
you know that they
they probably wanted that reaction
yeah i do um i one of the best pieces of
advice that i was ever given was
don't play around in the mud with the
picks because you both get dirty but the
pigs will love it right so i
live by a motto i've never explained
never complain i don't i own my
decisions like i own my life
i'm an adult i don't have to explain
myself to anyone should i not wish to
right simple um
i
am
confident
in my ability and my decisions that i'm
like this is
the path i'm choosing and you can like
it or lump it basically
um
but i felt like making an example i
didn't out anyone i didn't say any names
i didn't you know share any usernames
but i felt like making an example of
that person
especially with it being so out of
character for me to do so would have had
overall a positive consequence for the
people who were thinking it but weren't
writing it or the people that were
thinking of writing it and actually do
you know what sarah is getting much less
of it now i'm getting more specific now
um so i think in a way it was almost
like cost-benefit analysis yeah in a way
you know i i weigh these things up and i
think there's always going to i've been
thinking a lot lately because of um
there was a couple of my friend is the
global head of social media at
manchester united right and there's a
lot of black players right and so when
the team loses what you see on the black
players instagram there's lots of monkey
emojis and um it's actually awfully
my friend called me and said what do we
do about this
right he said we're gonna take this
dance um as a club and you know they we
talked a little bit about it on like a
whatsapp group or whatever and the club
stood up changed the cover photos and
said like manchester united against
races and the players got more racism
because shining a light on it yeah
it's like it's almost like it's not a
real thing how do i explain this it's it
could be some 14 year old kid who who's
leaving these monkey emojis who is
actually quite an okay person but they
just have this thing in them where they
want a bit of attention right they see
you or marcus rashford is not really a
real human right and an idol and so they
think just leaving they're not like an
inherently bad person but when you get
anonymity
and you get and we all have this you
know envy in us that comes from
somewhere you know the lifeboat analogy
right
and so like
i i'm what i'm i don't know what i'm
basically saying is like i don't think
we're ever going to be able to cure that
problem
with the only way i've actually seen is
i think you'd kill 99 of it if social
networks weren't anonymous and you had
to upload your passport because i think
if you connect real world consequences
to behavior i fully agree it's why you
don't get your dick out in public it's
like well well that's not why but it's
like that's the only reason it's why you
don't go up to someone and say those
things in public because there's real
world consequences totally agree i think
i think people should have there should
be some sort of like identification
process when you set up an account i
totally agree with it because the amount
i get the amount sarah gets um is it's a
real bloody shame as well because
especially because these people are like
supposed to be and i use this in
inverted commas fans they're supposed to
care about my life my existence are
supposed to you know they followed me
for a reason yeah um and i refuse to
believe especially because i'm i like to
think i'm a force of positivity i tend i
talk real talk and i share real things
but even when i'm talking about mental
health or
a bigger issue i do so from a stance of
positivity right at least i try to
so i refuse to believe that somebody is
that
negative or hates me that much but in
six mil you've got i know six how many
followers you got uh uh across
everything kind of don't think i've got
two on
youtube two on insta
just over two on twitter i don't i don't
know about facebook yeah six seven eight
whatever but then you're reaching more
people you know the people that follow
you aren't the ones that you're reached
yeah of course if you took that many
people and thought
probabilistically
how many of them would just not be like
okay people but have the capability of
sending out awful messages yeah there's
gonna be [__]
thousands yeah you also guarantee that
when i do like for example when i
announced that sarah and i were pregnant
um i went on to twitter and i was i was
trending and like i haven't tried it for
years i was like oh this is fun i
haven't tried it for so long so i was
going through it and
99 it was really positive but there was
a lot of it that was just like um
you know a little bit of hate and i had
a really good time responding to some of
it not like i wasn't saying anything
like for example someone was like jim
chapman still exists and he's not with
tanya and he's having a baby who knew um
and i just retweeted and responded god i
know right
what's happening for the books i am i'm
still alive who are you um so nothing
like i didn't respond to
real negativity just people going wow
that's like that's a funny old story oh
it's not tanya um
and
like i really enjoyed like i
i actually found that good fun because
by
drawing attention to it these people
were then like oh my god i love you
you're the best because obviously i've
let them know that i've seen it and that
i'm not tolerating [__] but also i
don't care enough
that i'm going to write something really
negative back i'm just like yeah i see
that i acknowledge it i am here i'm also
a human and it's yeah it's a really
interesting sort of phenomenon that
people
can write what they want without any
sort of consequences but when you give
them consequences
they'll suddenly be like oh wow you've
noticed me
i'm a really funny funny thing that
happened this week
this weekend it's yesterday um there's a
story that came out in the press
something that i had done this kid had
like dm to me if he'd made me a
wikipedia page and was like i thought
you deserve one so i made one and i
offered him a job in 10 minutes i said
what great show of initiative you've
shown your writing skills like come work
with us it was in the papers there's
this like facebook page where one of the
articles in the papers was posted
there's 60 comments 59 of them are like
amazing right and then there's this one
comment which is like
really [__] it's like steve bartlett
is like an evil guy he
they said that i made a pr story out of
the manchester bombings because we
raised a huge amount we let our team
have the day off right and we and we
raised this huge amount of money for the
families of the victims right and so
he wrote all this awful stuff about me
and
i screenshotted it and i i messaged the
guy and i said could you like i sent him
the screenshot i mean could you explain
this i've never seen someone
just completely changed and i said and
one of the things i said to him was
would you would you be okay with me
sharing this on my channels guess what
he said well obviously not absolutely
not right and i was never going to share
my channels right but why wouldn't why
can't i share in public well because
he's written on a public forum right
he's written on a public forum why can't
i share on my channel why wouldn't you
like three million people seeing that
right
and and he was like he literally i went
do i have your permission to share this
and he went absolutely not yeah i was
like do i have your permission to
respond to it publicly absolutely not
and it was just fascinating to see the
behavior because he obviously ate was in
some facebook group didn't expect me to
see it you know and this is i'm trying
to over the last couple of
i guess months trying to understand how
to deal
with
this social media centric often group
think driven because i'm sure all the
cheating stuff was one oh yeah yeah
there's a group of people and then
they're like yeah yeah i would say
tanya's never said anything um she's
never come out and called me a cheater
she hasn't done the opposite um like i
have if i'm being totally frank about it
like you know i've sort of said there
was nothing
you've addressed it i've addressed it
i'm trying to
i moved on first sure as far as the
world is concerned you know what i mean
like
it's really hard to say this without
sort of making
accusations whatever as far as the world
knows
i moved on first it's not necessarily
i should stop there but
it's
it's tricky to be accused of something
when
they've only got
limited information to to use right
so
because people see that i moved on first
they think
that perhaps i cheated so for me saying
i didn't cheat and for sarah's saying i
didn't cheat with jim um
it doesn't necessarily prove anything
right because of course we're going to
say that because we want to deny
our infidelity right
um
and it's tricky to
keep going back to it and keep saying
the same thing especially when it's so
unfounded um
but there's a point where you just have
to let it go right you can't you can't
change everyone's opinion about it
like i said like there's
there's like a
a load of people watching you they all
have opinions on you good or bad and the
perks of this job is that we get paid
well for it and that we get to live a
bloody adventure like it's so cool i
never expected this in my life i never
expected to be able to do the stuff i
get to do and live the life i get to
live it was never planned out for me i
never had like
um
the tools in place for it i found myself
here and i've grabbed on with both hands
and i've worked really hard to to
maintain it so that's the perk of being
a position i'm in unfortunately it comes
with a few drawbacks which is that
people make opinions on you and
you just have to not care so much not
easy though it's not easy at all
especially when they message your fiance
it's not easy at all especially also
when it's so
untrue
um
and yeah and
and also there's no way to rectify it
there's no way
there's no way i can rectify it or sarah
basically yeah um that's difficult
that's really difficult it is very
difficult yeah yeah and
and you must have this you see these
falsehoods in the comment sections you
must
instinctively be like oh that's not true
and that's harmful to my relationship to
whatever i need to fix that
i still really value tanya we're still
we're still mates so
i'm not
you know i'm never gonna i'm not gonna
uh
make a big thing i i try to just when it
comes up in conversation i'll just say
yeah it's this we grew apart right
because
i respect her and i value her and
i
i don't want to
keep bringing it up all the time because
also it doesn't define either of us
people break up all the time
unfortunately they don't always break up
in public but it doesn't define us we
both still have our careers we both
still have our lives we both still have
our people
um and that's very important it's just a
shame that it comes up so frequently and
it's so
um untrue
i had a sex therapist a relationship
therapist on this podcast um two weeks
ago and she had a really lovely sentence
which i haven't been able to forget and
she said just because a relationship
ends doesn't mean it wasn't successful i
still look at us as very successful yeah
like i said we
ticked all our boxes the next thing for
us was what i'm now doing with sarah and
um
i i see now that tanya would not have
been the person to do that with you know
and sarah a hundred percent is and
there are things that i have with her
that i've never experienced before um
and i'm
very lucky and like i said earlier i
feel like when when tanya and i started
going sep directions separate ways um it
was earlier than i
i think either of us kind of gave
credence to
um and so if we had i've done if you
know if i have done the things i'm now
doing with sarah with tony i don't think
i'll
it would have been for the best you know
whereas now i'm
i know that
sarah is my person i've learned a lot i
know what i'm worth i know what i
can expect from a partner um and
it's
it's really i've never experienced it
this way it's really lovely it's really
fruitful it's really rewarding it's
really
dynamic and it's really reciprocal did
you have a list of um attributes i was
talking to a couple of friends the other
day
um mixed gender group and one of them
posed the question like what's on your
list for an ideal partner um so you're
with the partner so i'm saying i guess
my question to you is what does
what did you look for but and also i
want you to answer the second question
which is
what does a partner need to offer jim in
order to be a good partner uh okay what
partners offer me i think
um
i i need to like i said earlier if i if
i love someone i trust them 100 right i
expect the same in return i can't deal
with jealousy i can't deal with someone
checking up on me if i'm
out
or
if i'm doing something
i'm not
gonna humor it because it's not me and i
don't want anyone to consider that it
might be me and if if as my partner
you're thinking oh he's out somewhere
he's with someone doing something he
shouldn't be then i haven't got time for
it so i expect that
um but also i i i expect to be
appreciated and reciprocated um
you know i know it's complicated it
doesn't happen all the time there are
times when you're in a bad mood or
whatever but
as i was walking here sarah texts me
saying i know i haven't said it at
lowe's because um i'm just feeling
really sick you know with the pregnancy
and everything but she went
my my baby is hit jackpot with a dad you
know and like i just want you to know i
really do appreciate you um
and i haven't said it much lately and
that's that's that's all i need why does
that matter to you so much because i i
want to know that i'm valued um and
that's that's that's the thing for me i
don't care why
um
because if i'm going to give someone my
all and like i said earlier if i'm in
love with someone they get everything
they get all my stuff if it's stuff i
care about i get all my time they get
everything right
um and i need to know that there's value
in me giving myself does that link to
your childhood at all perhaps yeah
perhaps i i just fully believe and maybe
this is why i write love well i fully
believe that
if i'm with someone
they've got it all right i don't believe
in i don't mean that in like a really um
codependent way because that's like the
worst you know if you're kind of
encouraging each other into something i
feel like you both need to live your
life independently but make a good team
and like you when you team up together i
think good stuff happens basically um
and
yeah perhaps but but i i think that i
for me if i'm
not
if i don't feel like i'm valued enough i
don't feel like my
um
it's not i say sacrifice not sacrifice
but if i don't feel like what i'm giving
isn't
appreciated or
but my worst nightmare is being
tolerated like i'm with someone and they
just go yeah all right and they just
they just tolerate me i'm out the door
um
because i'm too good for that like i i
have value and everybody does i'm not
saying me is an individual each and
every single person has their value
right they deserve to be
appreciated for that value and if
they're with someone who doesn't
appreciate it takes it for granted
um
whatever
then you're not with the right person
you know i think the you you need
someone who
respects you and appreciates you um and
who sees your worth uh perhaps more than
you do i mean i i
don't see
myself that clearly sometimes um and
sarah will often often say like you know
the text she sent me saying you know my
my babies jackpot with the dad that
they've got coming up is
you know this that means a lot to me i
have no chance to reply yet but i will
after this and that is it's a really big
thing it doesn't it's so such little
effort for her to send but it means a
[__] lot to me have you heard about love
languages
yeah have you ever done the old love
language test no have you ever do you
know what i tend not to
no i don't believe in that stuff i just
tend not to um
i think ignorance is bliss sometimes
because if i'm super aware of it
then i don't know if it's like i said
earlier with the therapy right when
you're aware of your
your thing your stuff yeah
and then you do it more like ah and
until you learn the tools of how to
overcome it or how to at least challenge
it it's frustrating and i feel like if i
learned that i was this way inclined
every time i did i'd go [__] call me
apparently i'm apparently i'm like the
archetypal capricorn you want to do your
love languages now go on shall we yeah i
did mine and it's actually really
you know i'm not that guy i'm not like a
i'm not i don't look at this the sun and
decide what's going to happen tomorrow
because of where the planets are i'm not
that guy
but the the love language thing is based
on asking you a bunch of questions about
like what you value more so ultimately
comes up with an answer and it says jim
chapman values when someone does this
and yours would be words of affirmation
or recognition mine is slightly
different so we'll talk about my
motherboard interesting um we're going
to do your love language now this is
going to drive me mental for the rest of
my life
like i said like apparently i am the
most archetypal capricorn and every time
i do anything that's sort of capricorny
now and i never really believed in this
sort of stuff every time i do anything
now i'm like damn it my bloody stars
told me or something okay here we go
okay so me and jim have just completed
the full love language survey which took
um about 10 minutes and his results why
am i nervous
i know everything about you and i'm
looking at all of your results here um
so it says and this is not surprising
this is what i expected from our
conversation up until that point right
jim's primary love language is words of
affirmation right actions don't always
speak louder than words if this is your
love language unsolicited compliments
mean the world to you hearing the words
i love you are important hearing the
reasons behind that loves um sends your
spirits skyward insults
can leave you shattered
and are not easily forgotten kind
encouraging and supportive words are
truly life-giving to you and you rank as
a 33
on words of affirmation which is high
you rank as three percent on receiving
gifts
17 on acts of service and then physical
and physical touch and quality time you
rank the same okay i would say gifts i i
think it might be more to somebody else
i think that my job comes with a lot of
stuff yeah so i don't really care about
it so much um i'd agree with that um
like i said earlier we get lots of hate
and it bounces off but if the hate comes
from
someone i love yeah that's an issue yeah
if it's an insult as well insult yeah
yeah that's that's a problem if it comes
from someone
um that i care about um yeah you know
i'm really lucky because sarah does all
of that she actually does most of
everything um which is great um
and
genuinely i'm very fortunate to have her
um she is
everything
that i
want and i use the word want and not
need because i think that's the
difference between
codependency and
like a healthy relationship i don't need
her i would be fine my life would
continue but
she brings
a little uh a little spice a little
something extra you know what i mean and
and it's much more enjoyable to have her
by my side for everything for sure so
what's next for you then you're working
on a lot we were talking about this
software yeah i am um i'm always working
on on stuff like i said just i just love
creating um so i have just started a
production company with my friend we
started in january or february last year
so just as the world might explode but
actually you know what has given us the
chance to really knuckle down
um and we've got some really good
headway so far um we're having lots of
big conversations with important people
and people seem to like our stuff um i
we do scripted and unscripted so i head
up the unscripted sorry i have the
scripted stuff so my writing
so far i've got a couple of films on the
go writing a book
um i'm also working on a like a a show
like a series and we've got a bunch of
unscripted stuff that i also chip in on
um but that's very much james my my
business partner is very much his sort
of um
wheelhouse um and the difference in time
it will take so he's constantly having
meetings and constantly like churning
stuff out whereas my stuff takes a lot
longer so i often feel like i'm not
pulling my weight but then i'll send him
like i just sent him a document
yesterday which is 20 000 words long
which took me two weeks to write and
it's like a an entire breakdown beat by
beat of how i see this new thing working
and he's like oh so you're doing stuff
so it's it's weird but i think um we
both we both are
really invested we're both really good
at what we do we're successful in our
own rights um
but i think there's something special
about working on something that's just
for passion we don't need this to work
we just really really wanted to and
that's really exciting you know if they
say oh you know jim chapman was a
success 10 years from now what would
they mean
um
what would that mean to you
i mean for me if i were saying about
myself it would it would mean that i
in terms of work
it would mean that i was respected in my
field
um it would mean people who
my contemporaries appreciated my input
but more than that if it were just in
general success it would mean i got out
okay you know what i mean i came out the
other side of this and um
i
have i'm content for me contentment is
sort of like a
a goal you know and i don't think it is
for many people um i don't want to
stress about stuff unnecessarily i don't
want to constantly strive for more um i
don't feel like it's necessary i want to
be really happy with what i've got and i
have that very in spades with my people
my family my friends um sarah my baby on
the way i've got more contentment than i
can throw a stick at i don't have it in
terms of
my
career because i'm constantly worried
about where it goes so have you ever
i hope i do i hope i i think
what it would take is um
a project that is very successful so
with my writing and then people come to
me rather than me constantly knocking on
flies you know what i mean it'd be
really nice to be in a position where go
hey you wrote that thing and it did
really well i want to give you
opportunities now rather than me
chasing it and i have that in terms of
social media like i'm very lucky to be
in the position i'm in which is sort of
i've been doing it for a very long time
and have a good name for myself so
people often come to me
i don't have it in my the other part of
my job and i'd love that but i'm still
new in it i've only been doing it you
know like i say i've been right in the
first screenplay for three and a half
years but that only got to a point where
it was
worth talking about
a year ago you know so it's still very
much in its infancy so i just hope that
i get to a point where
people
um
like my stuff and go you know what
you're really good at this let's let's
work with you on this project if it
doesn't happen it won't be through lack
of trying um and i won't hold it against
myself i'm not gonna be i won't feel
like a failure
um because i don't i don't really
believe in that i i believe you can be a
failure if you if you
quit and you never try you never try
it's all right but
if you don't make it and you and you've
given it a good bloody shot then you
know you've done better than most
yeah i said that tweet the other day and
i was in the gym and i thought about it
i thought you know
the concept of worry and fear
are so illogical because you know no
human has ever done more than their best
right and even on my [__] days where i'm
like really unproductive and whatever
bad mood or whatever that was actually
still my best that day yeah by
definition so this you know
um but it's fascinating and i um i
looking over your story in your career
one of the the key things i saw was this
temptation from you to like resist your
labels and to
and to not be sucked into the world
telling you who you are yeah i i i think
it doesn't really
you know what it's one of those things
where you meet people and the second
question they ask you is what you do for
a living the first being hi what's your
name right and
there's more to all of us than what we
do like i said earlier my job isn't what
what my job is what i do not who i am
right so i don't like being
jim chapman youtuber you know um
stifling it's like a box it's totally a
box and in the same way
the same way that you know an accountant
might not want to just be called an
accountant you know there's more to him
he's got his own life and whatever um i
just feel like it's
it's pigeonholing and it's tricky in
this industry because
people don't like you being good at more
than one thing if you're written about
um in the press or whatever it's
probably for you entrepreneur i'd
imagine right for me it's youtuber still
um and actually like i say that's a
small part of i upload one video a week
and i've only been doing that since we
found out we were pregnant because now
it's exciting to talk about stuff yeah
other than that i haven't uploaded for
six months you know what i mean so
there's more to us we're allowed to
explore new avenues do new things but i
think
for the sake of um society understanding
who which box you fit in right because
in articles they have to use a word
right so that the reader knows
and they can't say
jim chapman and then list your skills
yeah yeah so they're like box which box
right and i understand it because it's
it's how we
even down to like you know the
a simple individual level we all
stereotype yeah because
yeah i mean that's just that's just
psychologically it makes sense because
totally and it gives us sort of like
categories to work from
if you're walking down the street and
you see every single person as an
individual it's sensory overload so you
see someone in say a certain clothing
and a suit you know okay you're a banker
he might not be you might just like
wearing a suit but in your head that's
what he's done because it's easier just
to sort of carry on with your day
compartmentalise imagine if we didn't
imagine if you know lion running towards
us we thought i wonder if this is a good
lion generally
i said this to sarah just the other day
we were having a conversation quite a
heated conversation about something
and um she's i call her worst case
scenario sarah quite a lot because she
often will catastrophize right and i
said you're the kind of person that sees
someone running and you assume they're
running from
i don't know a crime or
a gun or something
i'm the kind of person that assumes
they're running towards a bus
because i i
i see the world as neutral right i don't
think the world has an opinion on me um
but i see my people as positive and i
know there's lots of negativity out
there but
um i don't see the world as that kind of
place in general whereas some people i
think are geared up to think the worst
it's like um
you know the whole fight and flight
thing
um some people are geared i think i
think i'd probably die right because i'd
be geared up to see a stick as a stick
whereas actually it makes much more
sense to see a stick as a snake because
on the one time it is a snake you don't
die yeah whereas like oh it's a stick
and i get bitten and die um so i think
uh if it were 200 000 years ago i would
be no good but actually in today's
society i do all right because i just
like to see
i think inherently i just see the world
as a
neutral or or at best positive um i
don't want to think that everybody
running is running from an explosion you
know it's just not the way i choose to
see the world
i think that's a much healthier way to
see the world like to think so i think
it'll take you much further
but anyway listen thank you so much for
your time today i think you're an
incredibly
inspiring guy not least because of what
you've achieved but because of your
willingness to be honest thank you i
think you know a lot of the stuff you've
shared about your childhood and being
open as a man about you you know the
impact therapy has had on you i think is
such an admirable thing and even your
call to you know to men to go to therapy
i think is something that i can
completely get behind right um
there's been so much stigma around it
for you know
you know
a bunch of historical reasons right as a
society we're overcoming but i but i
really applaud you for that and i'm
super excited to see what you do next
you know you're clearly someone that's a
brilliantly talented
be it's incredibly hard working
and um yeah and that that mixed with
your your um so that your huge amount of
self-awareness i think is going to make
for some unbelievable i i hope so i also
think that it could go totally the
opposite way
but either way you know i i
will i know whatever i
do
i'll do to the best of my ability you
know so if it doesn't go the way i
intend i'll find the next thing you know
i'm smart enough to do that
thank you
[Music]